---
title: Intra-ICS Variation
author: Ewan Wakeman
date-modified: 2020-12-02
---

Another focus of the System Metrics, is to use metrics which are availiable at a *place* or *neighbourhood* level rather than only ICS level in the majority of cases. The reason for this is a recognition that ICSs are not homogenous and in fact, there is likely greater variation between different places within a single ICS than there are between the averages of any two ICSs in the country. The differences within an ICS also give us an indication of how varied the outcomes in different metrics are across a System and when compared alongside [Time-series][#time-series] data can give a greater indication of how and where changes are happening. A slight change in a metric at a system level could be because all places within the STP have changed slightly or that a few places have changed significantly. Understaning *variation* and where change is taking place within a system helps to give a much fuller understanding of what is happening and means data can be more readily corroborated with local intelligence about what is happening within parts of a system.

It should be noted that - at present - no formal, unambiguous definition of place exists which allows for ICSs to be divided up and changes to be observed. As such, the System Metrics currently use `Local Authority Districts` as a proxy for place, as these most closely match the definitions of place set out in the Long-Term Plan. This means that the overwhelming majority of ICSs have multiple places within them, for which data exists. These definitions are widely used in public health and local government. Where necessary NHS data published at CCG level has been transformed to match the Local Authority District footprint based on population-weighted means where boundaries between CCG and place overlap.

Simlarly, whilst Primary Care Networks are considered to be representative of *Neighbourhoods* within a system, these definitions are based on General Practice (GP) patient lists which are naturally not publicly availible or used in any public metrics outside of those directly relating to Primary Care. As such the System Metrics use the Office for National Statistics' Statistical Geography `Mid-Layer Super Output Area (MSOA)` to represent Neighbourhoods. These have defined geogrpahical boundaries, closely mirror the definitions of Neighbourhood set out in the Long-Term Plan, and have boundaries which are co-terminus with both `Local Authority Districts` and `Integrated Care System` boundaries.